# nutrient-bag-expt
Data and code for "Pathways linking nutrient enrichment, habitat structure, and parasitism to host–resource interactions" manuscript published in Oecologia.

## Manuscript Citation
Penczykowski, R.M., M.L. Fearon, J.L. Hite, M.S. Showcket, S.R. Hall, M.A. Duffy. 2023. Pathways linking nutrient enrichment, habitat structure, and parasitism to host–resource interactions. Oecologia DOI: 0.1007/s00442-023-05469-9 https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00442-023-05469-9

## Data and Code citation
Penczykowski, R.M., M.L. Fearon, J.L. Hite, M.S. Showcket, S.R. Hall, M.A. Duffy. 2023. Data and Code from: Pathways linking nutrient enrichment, habitat structure, and parasitism to host–resource interactions.

## Abstract
Human activities simultaneously alter nutrient levels, habitat structure, and parasitism. These activities likely have individual and joint impacts on food webs, and there is particular concern that nutrient additions and changes to habitat structure might exacerbate levels and impacts of parasitism. We tested these impacts using a well-studied planktonic host-parasite system and experimental whole water column enclosures in which we factorially manipulated nutrient levels, habitat structure (specifically: mixing), and the presence and absence of parasites. Nutrient addition increased infection prevalence, infected host density, and total host density. We hypothesized that nutrients, mixing, and parasitism were linked in multiple ways, including via their joint effects on phytoplankton abundance. Structural equation modeling revealed that in the absence of the parasite, both nutrients and mixing increased phytoplankton, and host density was negatively related to phytoplankton abundance, suggesting a mixture of top-down and bottom-up control of phytoplankton. In the presence of the parasite, nutrients still increased phytoplankton abundance but mixing no longer did, and there was no longer a significant relationship between host density and phytoplankton. This decoupling of host-resource dynamics may have resulted from reduced grazing by infected hosts. Overall, our results show that the impact of one human activity, such as altered habitat structure, might depend on the presence of other human impacts, such as parasite introduction. Fortunately, carefully designed experiments and analyses can help tease apart these multifaceted relationships, allowing us to understand how human activities alter food webs, including interactions between hosts and their parasites and resources.

